## Interoperability

While the manually curated and inferred relations arising from this work are distributed in a simple format appropriate for wide reuse, we highlight two use cases below.

### Uptake by ChIRO and OBO

One of the goals of OBO is to facilitate modular ontology development, and provide a set of richly interlinked ontologies.
For example, many ontologies such as GO and HPO are axiomatized using ChEBI [@pubmed:23895341] for example, gliotoxin catabolism [@GO:2001309] has-input some gliotoxin [@CHEBI:5385].
ChEBI is not itself axiomatized in this way.
The ChIRO ontology was originally created as an overlay on top of ChEBI to provide this additional level of linkage.
This provides multiple advantages - users interested in concepts such as Arrythmia [@HP:0011675] in HPO can navigate to the drugs that exacerbate or inhibit it.
In particular, the use of axioms that connect from ChEBI back to GO allow for pathway queries when used in combination with GO-CAMs [@doi:10.1038/s41588-019-0500-1], for example reasoning from a gene that is upstream of a process that regulates biosynthesis of a particular chemical that itself acts as an inhibitor of another GO activity.
A workflow has been developed using Dead Simple OWL Design Patterns (DOSDP) [@pubmed:28583177]​ and the Ontology Development Kit ​(ODK) [@https://github.com/INCATools/ontology-development-kit].
DOSDPs are a generic framework that allows for generation of OWL terms and axioms using specific patterns.
The patterns are represented in a YAML file and contain slots for variables such as chemical classes from ChEBI.
The specific fillers for each variable in the pattern are represented as rows in a tab-separated values (TSV) file, which are then run through a pipeline via the ODK to generate new terms that include logical axioms that were specified by the pattern, that can be subsequently imported into the ontology.
Examples from ChIRO can be found at https://github.com/obophenotype/chiro/tree/master/src/patterns.

### Conversion to the Biological Expression Language

The Biological Expression Language (BEL) [@pubmed:24444544] is a domain specific language (DSL) for storing rich biomedical relations, supporting data integration [@doi:10.1101/631812].
The relationships curated and inferred in this work have a one-to-one correspondence with BEL statements as described in Table {@tbl:table-bel}.
The internal BEL DSL in the PyBEL software package [@pubmed:29048466] was used to implement a conversion that is included with each export.


| Relation                                | BEL Example                        |
| ----------------------------------------|------------------------------------| 
| Activation, Agonist                     | `a(X) directlyIncreases act(p(Y))` |
| Inhibition, Inverse Agonist, Antagonist | `a(X) directlyDecreases act(p(Y))` |
| Modulator                               | `a(X) regulates act(p(Y))`         |

Table: Mapping of relationships to BEL statements. {#tbl:table-bel}
