## Concluding Remarks

This article identified an area of improvement in the ChEBI ontology, presented a schema for curating that data, scripts for assisting in curation, and ultimately a curated database of role-modulation-target triples.
It also presented an informal framework for inference and an implementation for doing that inference. The results of curation and inference are both available directly on GitHub at [@https://github.com/chemical-roles/chemical-roles].

Like with most curation, this work is not complete. Curation will continue using the procedures described until exhaustion - about another 800 roles remain.
It would also be advantageous to generalize this curation technique from the roles in ChEBI to the roles in MeSH, a resource notorious for its lack of cross-references with other public biological data sources.
Several examples have already been included in the database, an ontology of chemicals from PubChem and MeSH pharmacological roles similar to ChEBI's is available through the PubChem FTP server ^[ftp://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubchem/Compound/Monthly/2020-04-01/Extras/MeSH-Pharm] that enable similar inference to that presented here. 

Finally, this resource should be made as interoperable with others as possible.
It was not designed to compete with ChEBI or ChIRO, but rather to complement and enrich them.
A future goal is to automate the upload of the results to WikiData through a bot to bolster their chemical data integration efforts.
Most importantly is to enable the ChEBI curators and the greater OBO community to best intake these relations into their ontologies and inference frameworks to benefit their work.
